>> Woodruff: ATTORNEY GENERAL
ERIC HOLDER CALLED THE KILLING
OF FLORIDA TEENAGER TRAYVON
MARTIN "TRAGIC" AND
"UNNECESSARY," BUT HE STOPPED
SHORT OF SAYING THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WOULD FILE CIVIL
RIGHTS CHARGES AGAINST GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: THEN, JEFFREY BROWN
EXAMINES PLANS FROM U.S.
RETAILERS TO IMPROVE FACTORY
SAFETY IN BANGLADESH, ON THE
HEELS OF A DISASTER THAT KILLED
MORE THAN A THOUSAND PEOPLE IN
APRIL DEAD.
>> Ifill: RAY SUAREZ HAS THE
STORY OF SINGERS AND SONGWRITERS
IN AUSTIN, TEXAS, THE LIVE MUSIC
CAPITAL OF THE WORLD, STRUGGLING
TO FIND AFFORDABLE HEALTH
INSURANCE.
>> I HAVE FINANCIALLY BEEN
COMPLETELY DEVASTATED TO WALK
WITH WITH MILLION MEDICAL EXECS
EXPENSES.
I COULDN'T PAY FOR THAT.
>> WE LOOK FOR DOPING SCANDAL
PLOONG THREETLE.
AMERICAN
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET WARNER
GETS AN AUTHOR'S UP CLOSE AND
DANGEROUS VIEW OF CORRUPTION AND
DRUG WARS IN HIS NATIVE MEXICO.
>> IT'S NOT THAT I HAVE A DEATH
WISH.
I'M STAYING BSE MEXICANS
THEMSELVES AND I BELIEVE THAT
THE STORY HAS TO BE TOLD.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE ACQUITTAL OF
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN FOR THE FATAL
SHOOTING OF TRAYVON MARTIN
ECHOED ACROSS THE COUNTRY TODAY.
THE NATION'S CHIEF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WEIGHED IN,
AMID PROTESTS AGAINST THE
VERDICT AND DEMANDS FOR FEDERAL
ACTION.
>> WE ARE ALSO MINDFUL OF THE
PAIN FELT BY OUR NATION
SURROUNDING THE TRAGIC
UNNECESSARY SHOOTING DEATH OF
TRAYVON MARTIN.
>> ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
USED THE VERDICT TO ISSUE AN
APPEAL.
>> I BELIEVE THIS TRAGEDY ALLOWS
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS
NATION TO SPEAK HONESTLY ABOUT
THE EMOTIONALLY CHARGED ISSUES
THAT THIS CASE HAS RAISED.
WE MUST NOT AS WE HAVE TOO OFTEN
IN THE PAST LET THIS OPPORTUNITY
PASS.
>> THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS
REVIEWING POSSIBLE CIVIL RIGHTS
CHARGES AGAINST ZIMMERMAN BUT
HOLDER GAVE NO INDICATION OF
WHAT THE DECISION WOULD BE.
>> I WILL ASSURE YOU THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WILL ACT CONSISTENT
WITH THE FACTS AND THE LAW.
>> HIS CONFRONTATION WITH THE
17-YEAR-OLD MARTIN WHO WAS
UNARMED, LATE SATURDAY A
SIX-WOMAN JURY ACQUITTED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH VOLUNTEER OF
BOTH SECOND DEGREE MURDER AND
MANSLAUGHTER.
>> WE THE JURY FIND GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN NOT GUILTY.
>> IN THE HOURS THAT FOLLOWED
PROTESTERS GATHERED IN CITIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY DEMONSTRATING
AGAINST WHAT THEY VIEWED AS A
MISCARRIAGE OF JUSTICE.
FROM FLORIDA.
>> I'M A BLACK YOUTH AND JUST TO
SEE ONE BLACK YOUTH DIE, THAT'S
CRAZY.
IT'S LIKE WNHE IS IT GOING TO
STOP?
IT'S BEEN GOING TOO LONG.
>>Woodruff: TO OHIO.
I WAS HURT BY IT.
JUST BECAUSE I DIDN'T FEEL THAT
JUSTICE WAS SERVED, EVEN THOUGH
IT MAY HAVE BEEN IN SELF
DEFENSE, I THINK HE SHOULD HAVE
HAD TO ACCEPT SOME EXPOBILITY
FOR WHAT HE DID.
>>Woodruff: TO ARIZONA.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO TRUST
THE LAWS THAT OUR NATION HAS FOR
US TO BUY INTO THE SYSTEM.
>>Woodruff: OTHERS THAT VIEWED
THE SYSTEM SAID THE JURY GOT IT
RIGHT.
>> I DON'T THINK THE PROSECUTION
DID ENOUGH AND I THINK THAT THE
DEFENSE DID.
>> YOU SAW LITTLE BITS AND
PIECES AND YOU HAVE TO SPECULATE
AND THINK OF THE WHOLE TRIAL
JUST ON LITTLE PIECE HE, WHEREAS
THE JURY HAS EVERYTHING TO
CONSIDER.
>>Woodruff: FOR THE MOST PART,
THERE WERE SCATTERED INCIDENTS.
LATE SATURDAY IN OAKLAND,
CALIFORNIA DEMONSTRATORS
VANDALIZED BUILDINGS AND SMASHED
CAR WINDOWS AND LAST NIGHT
GROUPS OF PROTESTORS IN LOS
ANGELES THREW ROCKS AND BOTTLES
AT POLICE.
60 WERE ARRESTED FOR FAILING TO
DISPERSE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA READ A
STATEMENT, THAT READ IN PART,
THIS VERDICT HAS ELICITED GREAT
PASSIONS, I NOW ASK EVERY
AMERICAN TO RESPECT THE LAW FOR
CALM REFLECTION FROM TWO PARENTS
WHO LOST THEIR YOUNG SON.
TODAY, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL DECIDE
WHETHER OR NOT TO PRESS CHARGES
AGAINST GEORGE ZIMMERMAN.
BUT HUNDREDS OF VIGILS AND
RALLIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY THIS
SATURDAY.
TRAYVON MARTIN'S FAMILY ALSO HAD
THE OPTION OF FILING A CIVIL
SUIT AGAINST ZIMMERMAN.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL DELVE INTO
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM, RACIAL
PROFILING, AND MORE, A FEW
MOMENTS FROM NOW.
ALSO AHEAD IN THE PROGRAM, A NEW
PLAN TO IMPROVE SAFETY AT
BANGLADESH FACTORIES; HEALTH
CARE FOR MUSICIANS; A FAILED
DRUG TEST FOR A CHAMPION
SPRINTER; AND A REPORTER'S
JOURNEY INTO A DANGEROUS MEXICO.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: A TOP U.S. DIPLOMAT
URGED EGYPT'S INTERIM LEADERS
TODAY TO INCLUDE ALL PARTIES IN
A TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY.
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE
WILLIAM BURNS IS THE FIRST
SENIOR AMERICAN OFFICIAL TO
VISIT CAIRO SINCE THE ARMY
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI.
BURNS MET TODAY WITH THE INTERIM
PRESIDENT AND THE HEAD OF THE
MILITARY.
AFTERWARD, HE SAID THE U.S.
WANTS ALL SIDES TO WORK
TOGETHER, SO EGYPT CAN SUCCEED.
BURNS' ARRIVAL IN CAIRO CAME AS
THOUSANDS OF ISLAMIST SUPPORTERS
OF OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED
MORSI DEMONSTRATED AGAIN.
THEY WAVED FLAGS AND PICTURES
DEMANDING HIS RETURN TO POWER.
U.S. OFFICIALS INSISTED TODAY
PRESIDENT OBAMA REMAINS
COMMITTED TO ARMING REBELS IN
SYRIA.
THEY PLAYED DOWN A "NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORT THAT THE EFFORT IS
MUCH MORE LIMITED THAN FIRST
DISCUSSED.
THE REPORT SAID THE C.I.A. WILL
PROVIDE ONLY SMALL ARMS, ON A
LIMITED BASIS, AND THAT IT COULD
TAKE MONTHS FOR THE PROGRAM TO
AFFECT THE BATTLEFIELD.
THE FULL U.S. SENATE WENT BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS THIS EVENING IN A
BID TO AVOID ALL-OUT FRACTURE
OVER FILIBUSTERS AND SENATE
RULES.
DEMOCRATIC LEADER HARRY REID
SAID REPUBLICANS MUST ALLOW
CONFIRMATION OF SEVEN
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES THEY'VE
BLOCKED SO FAR.
IF NOT, REID SAYS MAJORITY
DEMOCRATS WILL CHANGE SENATE
RULES, INSTITUTING AN UP-OR-
DOWN, SIMPLE MAJORITY VOTE FOR
SUCH APPOINTMENTS.
IOWA SENATOR TOM HARKIN MADE THE
DEMOCRATS' CASE.
>> IF WE'RE DOING OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY, WE WOULD
CONFIRM ALL OF THESE NOMINEES
TOMORROW AND MOVE ON TO OUR
LEGISLATIVE WORK SO WHY AREN'T
WE DOING THAT?
WELL, BECAUSE MY FRIENDS ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE ARE HIJACKING
THESE NOMINATIONS, AND THIS
NOMINATION PROCESS, TO TRY TO
MAKE CHANGES TO LAWS THEY KNOW
THEY COULD NOT CHANGE THROUGH
REGULAR ORDER.
>> Holman: THE MOVE WOULD NOT
AFFECT CURRENT RULES THAT
REQUIRE A SUPER-MAJORITY OF 60
VOTES TO BREAK FILIBUSTERS
AGAINST OTHER SENATE ACTION.
BUT REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING JEFF
FLAKE OF ARIZONA, ARGUED EVEN
THE LIMITED CHANGE WOULD DO
LONG-TERM DAMAGE TO THE SENATE.
>> THE RULE CHANGE THAT IS BEING
CONSIDERED THIS WEEK IS MORE FAR
REACHING AN MORE SIGNIFICANT
THAN HAS BEEN ADVERTISED.
THIS RULE CHANGE WAS DESCRIBED
THIS AFTERNOON BY THE MAJORITY
LEADER AS A, QUOTE, MINOR
CHANGE, NO BIG DEAL.
IT IS A BIG DEAL.
IT HAS A POTENTIAL TO CHANGE
THIS INSTITUTION IN WAYS THAT
ARE BOTH HAZARDOUS AND UN
FORSEEN.
>> Holman: SENATORS STILL COULD
REACH AN AGREEMENT ON THE
PRESIDENT'S PENDING NOMINEES AND
AVOID THE RULES CHANGE.
THE U.S. AIR FORCE IS PUTTING A
NUMBER OF ITS COMBAT PLANES BACK
IN THE AIR AFTER GROUNDING THEM
IN APRIL.
BUDGET CUTS FORCED A THIRD OF
ACTIVE-DUTY COMBAT PLANES TO BE
PARKED, FROM FIGHTERS TO BOMBERS
TO AIRBORNE RADAR PLANES.
THE RETURN TO FLYING COMES AFTER
CONGRESS ALLOWED THE PENTAGON TO
SHIFT MONEY FROM LOWER PRIORITY
ACCOUNTS TO TRAINING.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 20 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,484.
THE NASDAQ ROSE SEVEN POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3607.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE COME BACK TO
THE ZIMMERMAN VERDICT AND SOME
OF THE MAJOR QUESTIONS
CONTINUING TO RESONATE IN THE
WAKE OF THE DECISION.
WE GET FOUR VIEWS.
CHRISTINA SWARNS IS DIRECTOR OF
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE PRACTICE AT
THE N.A.A.C.P. LEGAL DEFENSE AND
EDUCATIONAL FUND.
JELANI COBB IS A CONTRIBUTOR TO
newyorker.com AND DIRECTOR OF
THE INSTITUTE OF AFRICAN
AMERICAN STUDIES AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT.
HE HAS BEEN WRITING ON THE
TRIAL.
JONATHAN TURLEY IS PROFESSOR OF
LAW AT GEORGE WASHINGTON
UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL.
CAROL SWAIN IS A PROFESSOR OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE AND LAW AT
VANDERBILT LAW SCHOOL.
>> WE THANK YOU ALL FOR AND I
WANT TO ASK EACH ONE OF YOU THE
SAME QUESTION STARTING WITH YOU
CHRISTINA SWARNS, WAS JUSTICE
DONE HERE?
>> NO.
I THINK THAT'S QUITE CLEAR.
JUCHTS WAS NO -- JUSTICE WAS NOT
DONE.
I DON'T THINK YOU CAN SAY WHEN A
CHILD IS WALKING DOWN THE
STREET, DOING NOTHING WRONG AND
BUYING CANDY AND ICE TEE, GETS
SHOT AND KILLED IN THE STREET.
NOTHING ACCOUNTABLE BUT JUSTICE.
IT'S QUITE CLEAR THAT NO,
JUSTICE WAS NOT DONE IN THIS
CASE.
>> CAROL SWAIN, HOW DO YOU SEE
IT?
WAS JUSTICE DONE?
>> I THINK OUR LEGAL SYSTEM
WORKED THE WAY IT WAS SUPPOSED
TO WORK.
THERE ARE A LOT OF SITUATIONS IN
THE CASE THAT DOES NOT FET WITH
THE RACE AGENDA.
>>Woodruff: WE CAN GET TO SOME
OF THOSE FACTORS THAT ARE NOT
BEING DISCUSSED IN JUST A
MINUTE.
LET ME ASK YOU JELANI COBB.
WAS JUSTICE DONE?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
I DON'T THINK JUSTICE WAS DONE.
WE HAVE THIS RIGHT TO -- FOURTH
AMENDMENT RIGHT FREEDOM FROM
UNCONSTITUTIONAL SEARCH AND
SEIZURE WHICH WE GENERALLY THINK
APPLIES TO THE POLICE BUT WHAT
WE HAVE IN FLORIDA IS A STATE OF
AFFAIRS WHERE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
DEPUTIZED IN LIGHT OF THE
VERDICT TO STOP AFRICAN AMERICAN
YOUTH ANYWHERE UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCES AND DEMAND WHAT
THEY'RE UP TO AND WHAT THEY'RE
DOING AND POSSIBLY AT THE
PENALTY OF DEATH.
>>Woodruff: AND JONATHAN TURLEY,
HEARING WHAT THE OTHERS HAVE
SAID, HOW DO YOU ANSWER THIS
QUESTION?
>> I THINK THE CASE HAS BECOME A
VEHICLE FOR ISSUES THAT GO FAR
BEYOND WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
COURTROOM.
WHAT WE TALK ABOUT JUSTICE WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT OFTEN
OVERRIDING ISSUES OF RACE IN
AMERICA THAT HAVE BEEN UNDER
SCRUTINY FOR DECADES.
DID JUSTICE OCCUR?
YES.
THIS WAS A DETERMINED
PROSECUTION.
MANY PEOPLE FELT ACTUALLY
OVERPLAYED THE CASE TO TRY TO
GET A CONVICTION.
I THINK IT WAS A FAIR TRIAL.
AND THE RESULT I THINK WAS
PREDICTABLE.
>>Woodruff: CHRISTINA SWARNES
PICK UP ON THAT AND SIZE UP FOR
US WHETHER YOU THINK THE
PROSECUTION DID THE JOB THAT IT
SHOULD HAVE DONE IN HANDLING THE
CASE.
>> WELL, I WOULD WANT TO FIRST
PICK UP ON THE POINT THAT WAS
JUST MADE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S QUITE CLEAR THAT
MARK O'MARA DID A GOOD JOB
DEFENDING HIS CLIENT.
HE OUTDEFENDED THE PROSECUTION
IN THIS CASE.
WITH RESPECT TO WHAT THE
PROSECUTION DID IN THIS CASE
THERE WERE SEVERAL SERIOUS
ERRORS MADE.
THE FIRST BEING THAT IT
ALLOWED -- IT WAS THE ISSUE OF
RACE WAS TAKEN OUT OF THE
COURTROOM AND THEN ULTIMATELY,
IN CLOSING SAID THAT IT WASN'T A
QUESTION OF RACE IN THIS CASE.
AND I THINK THAT WAS A
SIGNIFICANT ERROR AND A
SIGNIFICANT FALSE FACT, REALLY.
THE SECOND THING I WOULD POINT
OUT IS YOU KNOW, THE JURY
SELECTION IN THIS CASE, I DON'T
UNDERSTAND HOW THE PROSECUTION
BELIEVED THAT A JURY OF SIX
WHITE WOMEN WAS GOING TO BE
FAVORABLE TO ITS CASE AGAINST
MR. ZIMMERMAN.
SO I THINK THAT WAS ANOTHER
ERROR.
SEVERAL OF THE WITNESSES THAT
THEY PRESENTED CLEARLY APPEARED
TO BE UNPREPARED OR
UNDERPREPARED TO PRESENT A
MR. ZIMMERMAN.
SO I THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF
ISSUES AND ERRORS IN TERMS OF
HOW THE PROSECUTION HANDLED THIS
CASE.
>>Woodruff: CAROL SWAIN, HOW DO
YOU SEE, HOW THE PROSECUTION
HANDLED THE CASE?
GOOD I THINK EVERYTHING WAS SET
UP TO BE FAVORABLE TO THE
PROSECUTION AND SIX WOMEN WERE
SELECTED BECAUSE IT WAS ASSUMED
THEY WOULD BE FAVORABLE AND AT
TIMES IT SEEMED LIKE THE JUDGE
LEANED TOWARDS THE PROSECUTION.
I THINK THERE WAS A FAIR TRIAL.
IT PROBABLY WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
BROUGHT TO COURT AT ALL, IF --
CERTAINLY RACE WAS ALWAYS A PART
OF IT.
SO THERE'S NO WAY TO PRETEND
THAT IT WASN'T ABOUT RACE.
IT WAS ALWAYS ABOUT RACE.
IF IT HAD BEEN THE SAME CASE
INVOLVING TWO BLACK MEN OR TWO
WHITE MEN, IT WOULD NOT BE
NATIONAL NEWS.
AND SO IT WAS RACIALIZED FROM
THE VERY BEGINNING.
IF WE HAD FOCUSED ON THE FACULTY
THAT THIS WAS A CONFRONTATION
BETWEEN TWO ETHNIC MINORITIES
THAT TRAGICALLY ENDED IN A DEATH
WE WOULD NOT BE HERE DISCUSSING
IT RIGHT NOW.
>>Woodruff: WELL, TO YOU, JELANI
COBB ON THAT POINT ABOUT WHETHER
RACE WAS CLEARLY A PART OF THIS
TRIAL, WE KNEW THE JUDGE SAID AT
THE OUTSET THAT THE ATTORNEYS
WERE NOT TO USE THE TERM RACIAL
PROFILING.
>> RIGHT.
IF I CAN JUST RESPOND TO CAROL
SWAIN'S PREVIOUS POINT WITH THIS
BEING RACIALIZED AS OPPOSED TO
RACE BEING AN INTEGRAL PART OF
IT FROM THE BEGINNING.
MELISSA ALEXANDER WHO PEOPLE MAY
BE FAMILIAR WITH, IN A DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE SITUATION, FIRED A
WARNING SHOT AND WAS SENTENCED
TO 20 YEARS, DESPITE THE FACT
THAT SHE DEPLOYED A STAND YOUR
GROUND DEFENSE, DESPITE THE FACT
THIS IS WHO WHITE MEN OR TWO --
TWO WHITE MEN OR TWO BLACK MEN,
45 DAYS BEFORE THIS CASE WAS
INVESTIGATED OR CHARGES BROUGHT.
NO WE CAN'T ESCAPE AND FINALLY
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS,
MRS. ZIMMERMAN HAD CALLED THE
POLICE 46 TIMES IN PREVIOUS SIX
YEARS ONLY FOR AFRICAN
AMERICANS, ONLY FOR AFRICAN
AMERICAN MEN.
AND SO IF WE JUST LOOK AT WHO HE
THOUGHT WAS SUSPICIOUS AND IF
THIS WAS A KIND OF ARBITRARY
ELEMENT OF CALLING, 20% OF THE
POPULATION OF THAT SUBDIVISION
IS AFRICAN AMERICAN.
WHAT HIS PROBLEM SEEMED TO BE
WAS WITH THE PRESENCE OF AFRICAN
AMERICANS THERE NOT WITH THE
PRESENCE OF CRIME OR THE
INCAPACITY TO DIFFERENTIATE
BETWEEN AFRICAN AMERICANS AND
CRIME.
>>Woodruff: CAROL COULD YOU PICK
UP ON THAT POINT QUCH.
>> UNFORTUNATELY IF YOU LOOK AT
THE CRIME RATE OF AFRICAN
AMERICANS IT WORKS AGAINST
BLACKS.
AND IT BOTHERS ME A LOT THAT
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT THE
BLACK ON BLACK CRIMES THAT ARE
TAKING PLACE IN URBAN CITIES.
WE SHOULD BE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
YOUNG MEN THAT ARE DYING ACROSS
AMERICA.
AND THE CIVIL RIGHTS COMMUNITY
OUGHT TO BE OUT THERE MARCHING
IN THOSE COMMUNITIES, DEMANDING
THAT SOMETHING DIFFERENT BE
DONE.
>>Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT
POINT, CHRISTINA SWARNES?
>> YOU KNOW I OBVIOUSLY AGREE,
YOUNG BLACK MEN SHOULD NOT BE
GETTING KILLED ACROSS THIS
COUNTRY.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED IN FLORIDA TO
TRAYVON MARTIN IS MR. ZIMMERMAN
LOOKED AT HIM WALKING DOWN THE
STREET WITH A BAG OF SKITTLES
AND A BOTTLE OF ICED TEA AND
DETERMINED THIS YOUNG MAN WAS A
CRIMINAL.
HE WARRANTED A CALL TO THE
POLICE, WARRANTED BEING
FOLLOWED, FOLLOWING MR. MARTIN
DOWN THE STREET ON FOOT,
NOTWITHSTANDING THE FACT THAT
EVERYONE AGREES THAT THIS YOUNG
MAN WAS DOING ABSOLUTELY NOTHING
WRONG.
THERE WAS NOTHING CRIMINAL ABOUT
WHAT HE WAS DOING.
THERE WAS NOTHING APPARENTLY
CRIMINAL ABOUT WHAT HE WAS
DOING.
THE ONLY THING WE KNOW ABOUT HIM
WAS THAT HE WAS BLACK.
>> WE KNOW FROM OTHER EVIDENCE
THAT THE SCHOOL HAD APRIL
REHELPEDDED HIM AND FOUND
JEWELRY AND --
>> MR. ZIMMERMAN DIDN'T KNOW A
SINGLE THING ABOUT THAT.
ALL HE KNEW AT THAT MOMENT WAS
THAT MR.-- HE DIDN'T KNOW
ANYTHING ABOUT THIS CHILD.
THIS WAS A TEENAGER WALKING DOWN
THE STREET.
ALL HE SAW --
>> DIDN'T JUSTIFY MURDER --
Woodruff: WE'RE NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO RE-HEAR THE CASE
HERE.
SO WE HEAR THAT BOTH OF YOU HAVE
A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
JONATHAN TURLEY, DO YOU WANT TO
COMMENT ON WHAT THEY HAVE JUST
BEEN GOING BACK AND FORTH ON?
>> IT'S INDICATIVE ABOUT HOW
MUCH HAS BEEN PILED ON THIS
CASE.
WHAT WAS STRIKING ON THIS CASE
IS PEOPLE LOOKED AT THE SAME
EVENTS AND CAME AWAY WITH
SURPRISINGLY DIFFERENT VIEWS HOW
EFFECTIVE WITNESSES WERE.
I THINK THIS CASE WAS FATALLY
UNDERMINED BY ANGELA COREY AND
OVERCHARGED THE CASE AND MADE IT
SECOND DEGREE.
IF SHE HAD GONE WITH
MANSLAUGHTER IT COULD HAVE COME
OUT ERCHLT DID I.
I THINK IT IS A MAJOR --
DIFFERENTLY.
IT WAS A MAJOR FLAW.
IT GOT WORSE AND WORSE WITH THE
PROSECUTORS.
THEY LED WITH A VERY WEAK
WITNESS WHO WAS CONFLICTED AND
GAVE TESTIMONY THAT WAS HEAVILY
TOWARDS ZIMMERMAN'S FAVOR.
WHERE LET ME EVEN THIS OUT.
JELANI COBB DOES THIS VERDICT
SPEAK TO THE MINORITIES OF THE
COUNTRY GETTING A FAIR TRIAL?
>> WELL, I THINK THIS VERDICT
DOESN'T TELL US ANYTHING ABOUT
RACE AND JUCHTS SYSTEM THAT WE
DIDN'T ALREADY KNOW.
AND WHAT'S DISTURBING ABOUT THIS
IS YOU KNOW, REGARDING PROFESSOR
SWAIN AFS PREVIOUS COMMENT THE
AMOUNT OF CRIME IN AFRICAN
AMERICAN COMMUNITIES SOMEHOW
WORKS AGAINST SOMEONE THAT'S
ENDORSING THE VERY ELEMENT OF
RACISM.
NO AMOUNT OF WHITE CRIME WOULD
SIMPLY ALLOW US TO MAKE A
BLANKET PRIM PRIME PRIME AFAISB.
>>Woodruff: JONATHAN TURLEY
YOU'RE SHAKING YOUR HEAD HERE.
>> WE SEEM TO BE DETACHED FROM
WHAT THE EVIDENCE WAS.
THIS JURY KNEW KNOWING MORE --
NOTHING MORE ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED, THE SITUATION WAS IN
EQUIPOISE.
THE JURY IS NOT THERE TO MAKE A
GUESS AND IT'S CERTAINLY NOT
THERE TO MAKE SOCIAL JUSTICE
CALLS.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH TO
CONVICT AND I KNOW PEOPLE ARE
FRUSTRATED BY THAT.
BUT THIS SYSTEM WORKED.
THIS WAS A FAIR TRIAL.
>> MAY I PLEASE RESPOND?
Woodruff: YES, GO AHEAD.
WELL, SO THIS WAS NOT A
SITUATION OF EQUIPOSE.
BECAUSE THE FACT OF THE MATTER
IS, WHATEVER THE CONFLICT WAS IT
WAS PRECIPITATED BY
MR. ZIMMERMAN.
THE POLICE DISPATCHER TOLD HIM
NOT TO GET OUT OF HIS VEHICLE.
HE PROCEEDED TO GET OUT OF HIS
VEHICLE.
HE FOLLOWED BY CAR AND BY FOOT.
THIS WAS A CONFLICT.
IF THERE HAD BEEN A PHYSICAL
CONFLICT THAT EVOLVED OUT OF
THAT IS BECAUSE MR. MARTIN FELT
THREATENED WHICH IS A
JUSTIFIABLE REASONABLE
PRESUMPTION.
IF ANYONE IS WALKING DOWN A DARK
STREET IN THE RAIN AND SOMEONE
IS FOLLOWING THEM ON FOOT YOU
MIGHT ASSUME YOU ARE AT RISK.
IF TRAYVON MARTIN STRUCK HIM
FIRST, IF TRAYVON MARTIN STRUCK
HIM NUMEROUS TIMES THIS WOULD BE
THE ACTION OF SOMEONE WHO
REASONABLY FEARED FOR HIS LIFE.
>>Woodruff: WE'RE GOING TO LET
JONATHAN RESPOND.
>> WE CAN'T SAY THAT THE JURY
BELIEVED ZIMMERMAN OR EVEN LIKED
ZIMMERMAN IN THIS, THEY SIMPLY
DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH TO CONVICT
ZIMMERMAN.
THE ACTIONS YOU DESCRIBE ARE
LEGAL.
HE'S LOUED TO FOLLOW AND BE
ARMED.
I THINK SOMEONE INVESTING SO
MUCH IN THE CASE THAT THEY DON'T
RECOGNIZE THAT THESE ARE LAWFUL
ACTS AND YOU HAVE TO PRESUME
THINGS IN THIS CASE THAT A
JURY'S NOT SUPPOSED TO PRESUME
WHEN THERE'S A PRESUMPTION OF
INNOCENCE.
>>Woodruff: I WANT TO COME BACK
TO ALL OF YOU WITH THIS FINAL
QUESTION STARTING WITH YOU
CHRISTINA SWARNS, SHOULD THE ARE
CIVIL GRAND JURY PURSUE A CASE
AGAINST GEORGE ZIMMERMAN?
>> I THINK THEY SHOULD.
WE COULD PICK THIS APART AND SAY
THIS SHOULD HAPPEN AND THIS
SHOULDN'T HAPPEN AND THIS DIDN'T
GO WELL BUT THE TRUTH OF THE
MATTER IS THAT A YOUNG INNOCENT
YOUNG MAN WAS SHOT DEAD IN THE
STREET AND NO ONE HAS BEEN HELD
ACCOUNTABLE AND WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS A FAIR TRIAL IN THE
TERMS OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE
LAW, THAT IS NOT JUSTICE.
IT MAY HAVE BEEN A FAIR TRIAL
BUT THAT IS NOT JUSTICE.
AND SO I THINK THERE NEEDS TO BE
A FURTHER REVIEW.
AND WE NEED TO THINK ABOUT
WHETHER THE SYSTEM IS WORKING,
IF THIS IS A FAIR OUTCOME IN THE
FOUR CORNERS OF OUR JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
AND SO I CERTAINLY BELIEVE THAT
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD
LOOK AT IT AND SEE WHAT ITS LAWS
PROVIDE, WHETHER FOR EXAMPLE THE
MATTHEW SHEPHERD JAMES BIRD HATE
CRIME ACT PROVIDES AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR FURTHER FEDERAL
PROSECUTION IN THIS CASE.
BECAUSE WHETHER OR NOT THAT
TRIAL WAS FAIR UNDER THE LAW
JUCHTS WAS NOT DONE IN THIS
CASE.
>>Woodruff: CAROL SWAIN SHOULD
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL PURSUE A
CIVIL CASE IN THIS MATTER?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
THE STATE HAS TRIED THE CASE.
WE HAVE THE RULE OF LAW AND THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL SHOULD NOT PICK
AND CHOOSE AND WHEN THERE'S AN
OUTCOME THAT DOESN'T FIT THE
POLITICAL NARRATIVE OF THE DAY
WHERE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
RACIALIZED THEY SHOULD NOT JUMP
INTO THAT AND STIR THE POT.
THEY SHOULD BE EDUCATING PEOPLE
ABOUT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
THEY SHOULD BE EDUCATING PEOPLE
NOT STIRRING THE POT.
>>Woodruff: WE ARE GOING TO
LEAVE IT THERE BUT WE WANT TO
THANK ALL FOUR OF YOU FOR
JOINING US.
AROLC SWAIN, CHRISTINA SWARNS,
JELANI COBB AND JONATHAN TURLEY.
>> Ifill: NOW, THE LATEST
EFFORTS TO IMPROVE FACTORY
CONDITIONS IN BANGLADESH, AND
QUESTIONS ABOUT JUST HOW
EFFECTIVE THEY WILL BE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> IT WAS LESS THAN THREE MONTHS
AGO THAT THE EIGHT-STORY RANA
PLAZA BUILDING COLLAPSED KILLING
MORE THAN 1100 WORKERS.
THE ACCIDENT NEAR THE BAGHDADI
CAPITAL DAKKA WAS LARGE.
FRED de SAM LAZARO VISIT THE
SITE WHERE FAMILY AND LOVED ONES
ARE STILL GRIEVING.
>> THEY GOT THE BODIES OF MY
OLDER SON AND DAUGHTER-IN-LAW
BUT THEY HAVEN'T FOUND MY
YOUNGER SON.
>>Brown: THE BUILDING COLLAPSE
CAME JUST SIX MONTHS AFTER THE
FIRE DESTROYED ANOTHER BUILDING
OUTSIDE DAKKA.
PUT NEW FOCUS ON OFTEN DISMAL
CONDITIONS AT APPAREL FACTORIES
OUTSIDE BANGLADESH.
FOR U.S. AND EUROPEAN RETAILERS.
LAST WEEK IN WASHINGTON
REPRESENTATIVES OF SOME OF THOSE
RETAILERS INCLUDING WALMART AND
TARGET, WORKING CONDITIONS.
>> WE STAND HERE TODAY BECAUSE
WE BELIEVE THAT COMPANIES AND
GOVERNMENT HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY
TO ENSURE THAT THE TRAGEDIES
THAT OCCUR IN BANGLADESH ARE NOT
REPEATED AND WE BELIEVE THAT IF
WE WORK TOGETHER WE CAN PREVENT
AND FIX UNSAFE WORKING
CONDITIONS IN BANGLADESH.
>> THE NEW GROUP KNOWN AS THE
ALLIANCE FOR BANGLADESH WORKER
SAFETY REPRESENTS 17 U.S. AND
CANADIAN RETAILERS.
TOGETHER THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR IMPORTS FROM BANGLADESH.
THEY SAID THEY HAVE RAISED $42
BILLION FOR A FIVE YEAR EFFORT
INCLUDING CREATING COMMON SAFETY
STANDARDS WITHIN THREE MONTHS
AND REQUIRING SAFETY INSPECTIONS
AT ALL ALLIANCE FACTORIES WITHIN
A YEAR.
TARGET VICE PRESIDENT DANIEL
DUDY.
>> ALLIANCE RECOGNIZES THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE GARMENT
INDUSTRY TO THE BANGLADESH
ECONOMY ITS WORKERS AND
FAMILIES.
WE RECOGNIZE THE UNIFYING ROLE
TO HELP WORKER SAFETY WHICH WE
ARE DETERMINED TO DO THROUGH
THIS ALLIANCE.
>>Brown: THAT ANNOUNCEMENT,
SEPARATE GLOBAL EFFORT
SPEARHEADED BY EUROPEAN LEADERS,
IT ALSO LAYS OUT NEW STAT SAFETN
OTHER GUIDELINES.
72 COMPANIES HAVE ALREADY SIGNED
ON BUT MOST MAJOR AMERICAN
COMPANIES DECLINED TO JOIN.
THEY SAY IT EXPOSES THEM TO
UNLIMITED LIABILITY, PROVIDES
TOO LITTLE ACCOUNTABILITY FOR
HOW MONEY IS SPENT AND GIVES
UNIONS TOO MUCH POWER.
AN
AND WE FILL IN AND DEBATE THE
PICTURE NOW WITH AVEDIS
SEFERIAN, PRESIDENT AND C.E.O.
OF WORLDWIDE RESPONSIBLE
ACCREDITED PRODUCTION, OR WRAP,
AN ORGANIZATION CREATED BY THE
AMERICAN APPAREL AND FOOTWEAR
ASSOCIATION, ALONG WITH BUYERS
AND BRANDS AROUND THE WORLD.
AND SCOTT NOVA, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE WORKER RIGHTS
CONSORTIUM, A LABOR RIGHTS
MONITORING ORGANIZATION.
HIS GROUP WAS INVOLVED IN
HAMMERING OUT THE AGREEMENT MADE
BY EUROPEAN AND GLOBAL
RETAILERS.
FOR THE RECORD, WE INVITED A
GROUP SPECIFICALLY REPRESENTING
AMERICAN RETAILERS TO
PARTICIPATE, BUT OUR INVITATION
WAS DECLINED.
INVITATION WAS DECLINED WELCOME
YEAH.
FIRST, HOW IMPORTANT IS THIS NEW
EFFORT BY U.S. COMPANIES, IN
WHAT WAYS MAY IT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE?
>> I THINK IT IS VERY IMPORTANT
INDEED.
THE TRAGEDY WAS SUCH AN IMMENSE
ONE, THAT THE GRIEVING STILL
CONTINUES AND THERE'S CLEARLY SO
MUCH WORK THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE.
ANY EFFORT THAT AIMS AT
IMPROVING FACTORY CONDITIONS AND
MAKING WORKERS LIVES SAFER AND
WORKING CONDITIONS BETTER IS ONE
THAT OUGHT TO BE WELCOMED.
>>Brown: AND YET SCOTT NOVA,
YOUR GROUP CALLED THE EFFORT A
SHAM.
WHY.
>> INDEED BECAUSE THIS IS A
SUPPOSED AGREEMENT IN WHICH NEW
OF THE PARTICIPATING COMPANIES
HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO PAY A
SINGLE PENNY TO RENOVATE AND
REPAIR THESE FACTORIES AND MAKE
THEM SAFE.
THIS IS WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN IN
BANGLADESH.
YOU HAVE THOUSANDS OF FACTORIES
THAT ARE GROSSLY STRUCTURALLY
UNSAFE.
THEY NEED TO BE RENOVATED AND
REPAIRED IN ORDER TO PREVENT
FUTURE BUILDING COLLAPSES AND
FIRES.
THIS COSTS MONEY.
THE ONLY WAY THIS IS GOING TO
HAPPEN IS IF THE COSTS ARE
UNDERWRITTEN.
REQUIRES THE BRANDS AND
RETAILERS TO UNDERWRITE THE
COSTS OF THE RENOVATIONS
NECESSARY TO MAKE THE FACTORIES
SAFE.
T. RETAILERS
HAVE REFUSED TO MAKE THAT
AGREEMENT.
>>Brown: DO YOU SEE THIS IN THAT
AGREEMENT?
>> NO I DON'T, OTHER $42 MILLION
ALREADY AND THAT'S BASED ON THE
17 MEMBERS CURRENTLY PART OF THE
ALLIANCE, IT WILL INCREASE WHEN
MORE MEMBERS JOIN.
THAT IS A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF
MONEY BEING CONTRIBUTED TO A
SPECIFIC PLAN TO IDENTIFY THE
FACTORIES WITH PROBLEMS AND MAKE
SURE THAT THE SOURCING PRACTICES
OF THOSE FACTORIES ARE
TERMINATED THUS SENDING A VERY
STRONG SIGNAL TO THE INDUSTRY
THAT YOU ONLY GET TO WORK WITH
THESE MAJOR RETAILERS IF YOU
HAVE SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS.
>>Brown: I'M SORRY.
PLUS ON TOP OF THAT THE
ALLIANCE HAS PUT ASIDE $100
MILLION AS A FUNDING MECHANISM
FOR FINANCING TO MAKE AVAILABLE
FOR THE FACTORIES TO IMPROVE
THOSE CONDITIONS.
ON TOP OF WHICH 10% OF THAT $42
MILLION HAS BEEN SET ASIDE TO
HELP WORKERS WHO MAY HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED WHILE THESE
REFURBISHMENTS ARE BEING MADE.
>>Brown: IS IT THE MONEY OR THE
BINDING AUTHORITY TO CAUSE THE
MONEY TO BE USED?
>> THE 42 MILLION IS PURELY THE
ADMINISTRATIVE COST OF THE
PROGRAM.
THE ONLY REFERENCE IN THE EMPIRE
EMPIRE -- ENTIRE INITIATIVE IS A
SUPPOSED $100 MILLION LOAN
PROGRAM BUT IF YOU READ THE
DOCUMENTS THAT GAP AND WALMART
AND OTHER COMPANIES PUT FORWARD
SAYS VERY EXPLICITLY, THIS IS
NOT BINDING.
TO MAKE LOANS OR OTHERWISE
CONTRIBUTE TO MAKE THE FACTORIES
SAFE.
>>Brown: BUT WHY NOT A PUBLIC
SPOTLIGHT?
WHY NOT GIVE THEM THE BENEFIT OF
THE DOUBT THAT THE SPOTLIGHT HAS
BEEN SHOWN?
>> SURE BECAUSE WE HAVE BEEN
HEARING THE SAME PROMISES FROM
WALMART AND OTHER U.S. RETAILERS
FOR A DECADE.
FOR A DECADE THEY HAVE BEEN
PROMISING TO INSPECT THE
PROPERTY AND HAVE FAILED.
IF YOU TRUST THE KERRIES FROM
LARGE CORPORATIONS TO BE TRUSTED
PURELY OUT OF THE GOODNESS OF
THEIR HEARTS, IT IS A SCAM.
WHERE WE WANT LARGE CORPORATIONS
TO DO THE RIGHT THINGS BY
WORKERS YOU NEED TO REQUIRE THEM
TO DO IT YOU NEED TO RECOGNIZE
THAT THE GAP SCHEME IS NOT GOING
TO --
>>Brown: LET ME ASK YOU THE
INCENTIVES ARE TO KEEP COSTS
DOWN, THAT'S THE REASON WHY THE
COMPANIES ARE IN BANGLADESH TO
CREATE THE LOWER-COST APPAREL.
>> IT IS PRECISELY THAT YOU ARE
IN THE REAL WORLD THAT YOU WILL
RECOGNIZE THE ALLIANCE, BECAUSE
THAT IS EXACTLY BUILT AROUND THE
KIND OF INCENTIVES THAT YOU ARE
REFERENCING.
THIS IS A MARKET ECONOMY AND
THERE IS ALWAYS GOING TO BE
PRESSURE ON REDUCING COSTS.
IT SHOULD NOT FOLLOW FROM THAT,
THAT THIS SHOULD LEAD TO UNFAIR
WORKING CONDITIONS IN FACTORIES
SO YOU NEED TO CREATE THE RIGHT
KINDS OF INCENTIVES IN FORM OF
THE PROGRAM IDENTIFYING, AND
MAKING SURE THOSE FACTORIES DO
NOT GET SOURCED FROM AND SENDING
A STRONG SIGNAL TO EVERYONE ELSE
IN THE INDUSTRY YOU CANNOT GET
BUSINESS IF YOU ARE NOT KEEPING
YOUR WORKERS SAFE.
ON TOP OF WHICH TO A POINT
RAISED EARLIER, THE $42 MILLION
IS NOT ENTIRELY, HAS BEEN
EARMARKED PRECISELY TO GO TO
WORKERS TO HELP THEM TIDE OVER
THAT TIME WHEN THEY MIGHT BE
WITHOUT JOBS WHILE THE FACTORIES
IN QUESTION ARE BEING
REFURBISHED.
>>Brown: LET ME ASK YOU NO
MATTER HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THESE
SPECIFIC AGREEMENTS THE TWO ON
THE TABLE AND THE GLOBAL AND THE
U.S., HOW DIFFICULTY WILL IT BE
TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE, GIVEN THE
NUMBER OF FACTORIES, THE
CORRUPTION, WHERE THE MONEY
GOES, ET CETERA?
>> IT CAN BE DONE.
IT'S A QUESTION OF MONEY AND
BINDING COMMITMENTS.
WE'VE KNOWN HOW TO MAKE AN
APPAREL FACTORY SAFE FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS.
HOW TO DO IT ASK NO BIG PROBLEM,
NO STRUCTURAL ISSUE.
THE PROBLEM IS U.S. BRANDS AND
RETAILERS HAVE DEMANDED SUCH LOW
PRODUCTION COSTS THAT THE ONLY
WAY THE FACTORIES CAN POSSIBLY
MEET THOSE PRICES IS TO IGNORE
WORKER SAFETY.
THAT'S WHAT CREATED THIS CURRENT
DISASTER.
THE ONLY WAY TO FIX IT IS TO PUT
MONEY IN THE SYSTEM TO PAY TO
RENOVATE THE FACTORY TO MAKE
THEM SAFE.
THIS WILL NOT HAPPEN GIVEN THE
DYNAMICS OF THE INDUSTRY, THE
CUTTHROAT NATURE OF THE
INDUSTRY, UNLESS THE BRANDED
RETAILERS ARE CONTRACTUALLY
OBLIGATED TO DO IT.
WE CAN NO LONGER TRUST THEM TO
DO IT.
THEY HAVE BEEN PROMISING TO DO
IT FOR MORE THAN A DECADE AND
THEY HAVE FAILED.
>>Brown: DO YOU THINK THE PATH
TO GET THERE WHATEVER YOU THINK
OF THE SPECIFIC AGREEMENTS IS AS
CLEAR AS HE SUGGESTED?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK IT'S QUITE
SO CUT AND DRIED.
I REITERATED EARLIER THAT ANY
PLAN TO IMPROVE CONDITIONS IN
BANGLADESH OUGHT TO BE WELCOMED.
SO EVEN THOUGH I'VE BEEN
PRESENTING SOME OF THE DETAILS
OF THE ALLIANCE IS NOT TO
SUGGEST THAT I DISAGREE WITH THE
ACCORDS, BOTH PLANS ARE
ULTIMATELY TRYING TO ACHIEVE THE
SAME THING.
CREATE A SAFE WORKING
ENVIRONMENT FOR FACTORY WORKERS
IN BANGLADESH.
THE WAY TO GO ABOUT IT IS NOT
QUITE AS CUT AND DRIED AS I
SAID.
IT IS GOING TO TAKE MONEY AND SO
BOTH PLANS ARE PUTTING FORWARD
SERIOUS MONEY.
IT IS GOING TO TAKE MONEY
APPLIED IN THE RIGHT WAY WHICH
IS WHY I THINK SOME OF THE
INCENTIVES AND FROM THE WAY OF
DISTRIBUTING THAT MONEY IS GOING
TO BECOME SO IMPORTANT.
IF YOU CREATE BUSINESS
INCENTIVES, HOWEVER MUCH WE CAN
TALK ABOUT YOU KNOW, MANDATING
STUFF WE ALL KNOW IN THE END
VOLUNTARY EFFORTS ON SOMEONE'S
PARTS ARE LIKELY TO BE MORE
SUSTAINABLE THAN FORCED TO DO
SOMETHING.
YOU CREATE THE RIGHT BUSINESS
INCENTIVES YOU CREATE THE RIGHT
CONDITIONS IN BANGLADESH THAT
MAKES CLEAR TO THE FACTORY
OWNERS THAT UNLESS YOU CREATE
SAFE FACTORIES YOU CANNOT ATTAIN
THE END GOAL.
>>Brown: WE'LL HAVE TO END IT
THERE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: NEXT, A LOOK AT A
UNIQUE ALLIANCE THAT PROVIDES
MUSICIANS WITH HEALTH CARE
COVERAGE.
IT'S IN A STATE WITH THE
NATION'S HIGHEST UNINSURED RATE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR STORY.
>> Suarez: GET CLOSE ENOUGH TO
DOWNTOWN AUSTIN, TEXAS, AND IT'S
NOT HARD TO HEAR WHY IT'S CALLED
THE LIVE MUSIC CAPITAL OF THE
WORLD.
GET A LITTLE CLOSER, AND THE
MUSICIANS THEMSELVES TELL A
QUIETER STORY.
THAT'S JOHN POINTER ON STAGE NOW
AT ANTONE'S NIGHTCLUB.
HE'S A BEAT-BOXING, BOOT-
STOMPING SINGER-SONGWRITER WHO
ALSO HAS TYPE ONE DIABETES.
LIKE THE AVERAGE AUSTIN
MUSICIAN, HE MAKES LESS THAN
$16,000 A YEAR, AND HE CAN'T
AFFORD HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> SO MANY PEOPLE SAID, WELL,
THEN JUST GET A JOB.
BUT I THINK THE TEN AUSTIN MUSIC
AWARDS AND THE NATIONAL
TELEVISION COMMERCIALS AND THE
STAGES ON WHICH I'VE PERFORMED
AND THE AUDIENCES THAT COME TO
SEE ME WOULD DISAGREE THAT I
SHOULD JUST QUIT AND GET A JOB
THAT GIVES ME HEALTH CARE.
>> Suarez: HAVING DIABETES MADE
IT DIFFICULT FOR POINTER TO FIND
AN AFFORDABLE PRIMARY CARE
DOCTOR IN AUSTIN.
HE WAS PAYING SEVERAL HUNDRED
DOLLARS A MONTH FOR COVERAGE IN
THE STATE'S HIGH-RISK INSURANCE
POOL, AN AMOUNT THAT CONSUMED
MUCH OF HIS TAKE-HOME CASH.
THEN ONE DAY POINTER DECIDED TO
CHECK INTO AN UNUSUAL PROGRAM
DESIGNED FOR PEOPLE LIKE HIM.
IT'S CALLED THE HEALTH ALLIANCE
FOR AUSTIN MUSICIANS, OR HAAM.
SIMILAR IN SOME WAYS TO AN
INSURANCE COMPANY, THE GROUP
CONNECTS WITH AREA HEALTH
PROVIDERS, WORKS OUT
REIMBURSEMENT RATES, AND HELPS
KEEP OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS FOR
MEMBERS MANAGEABLE.
HAAM EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CAROLYN
SCHWAR SAYTZS IT'S THE LEAST
THIS CITY CAN DO.
>> THE MUSIC INDUSTRY IS A $2
BILLION INDUSTRY HERE IN AUSTIN.
ANY NIGHT OF THE WEEK, YOU CAN
GO TO ONE OF OVER 250 VENUES TO
GO SEE LIVE MUSIC.
IT'S AT OUR GROCERY STORES, IT'S
IN CLUBS-- I MEAN, EVERYWHERE
YOU GO IN AUSTIN, WE'RE JUST
USED TO HAVING LIVE MUSIC.
AND SO I THINK OF ANY COMMUNITY
THAT WOULD SUPPORT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS, AUSTIN IS THE IDEAL
PLACE.
>> Suarez: SCHWARTZ HELPED
LAUNCH HAAM IN 2005, AND
CONTINUES TO RUN THE GROUP
TODAY.
SHE'S QUICK TO POINT OUT THAT
DESPITE THE SIMILARITIES, HAAM
ISN'T HEALTH INSURANCE.
MUSICIANS MAKING LESS THAN 250%
OF THE POVERTY LEVEL ARE LINKED
DIRECTLY WITH HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS OFFERING REDUCED RATES
FOR EVERYTHING FROM PRIMARY CARE
TO VISION AND HEARING.
HAAM PAYS FOR MOST OF THE EXTRA
COSTS THROUGH GRANTS AND FUND-
RAISING.
>> IT DOES ONLY HELP THE
MUSICIANS WHILE THEY'RE HERE IN
AUSTIN, BUT OUR MUSICIANS HAD
NOTHING BEFORE HAAM, AND SO THE
METHOD THAT THEY USED WAS CALLED
THE WALK-IT-OFF METHOD.
WITH THIS PROGRAM, THEY HAVE
ACCESS TO A 24-HOUR NURSE CALL
CENTER.
THEY'RE GETTING URGENT CARE
APPOINTMENTS IN A PRIMARY CARE
SETTING.
IT'S VERY COST-EFFECTIVE FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> Suarez: THE NOTEWORTHY
RESULT, ACCORDING TO MUSICIAN
GINGER LEIGH, IS KNOWING THAT AN
UNEXPECTED HEALTH DISASTER WON'T
LEAD TO FINANCIAL RUIN.
BEFORE HAAM, SHE SPENT MANY
YEARS UNINSURED, AND HOPING FOR
THE BEST.
>> AND I WOULDN'T GO TO DOCTORS
AS MUCH AS I PROBABLY SHOULD
HAVE BECAUSE WHEN YOU CAN'T
AFFORD IT.
YOU'RE AFRAID THEY'RE GOING TO
FIND SOMETHING THAT'S A REALLY
BIG PROBLEM, AND ALL OF A SUDDEN
YOUR ENTIRE LIFE IS GOING TO
CHANGE BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO
BE STRAPPED WITH HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OF MEDICAL
BILLS IF IT IS SOMETHING.
>> Suarez: THAT VERY EASILY
COULD HA BEEVEN HER STORY.
BUT LEIGH DISCOVERED HAAM A
COUPLE OF YEARS BEFORE SHE FOUND
A LUMP IN HER RIGHT BREAST.
MANY PROCEDURES FOLLOWED,
INCLUDING A LUMPECTOMY, A
MASTECTOMY, AND RECONSTRUCTIVE
SURGERY.
BUT TO LEIGH'S RELIEF, MOST OF
THAT WAS PAID FOR THROUGH SMALL
CO-PAYS, THE CHARITY CARE
DONATED BY A LOCAL HEALTH GROUP,
AND HAAM.
>> I WOULD HAVE FINANCIALLY BEEN
COMPLETELY DEVASTATED TO HAVE
HAD TO WALK AWAY WITH $130,000
TO $150,000 IN MEDICAL EXPENSES.
AND I CERTAINLY COULDN'T KEEP
DOING MUSIC TO PAY FOR THAT.
>> Suarez: SHE'S NOW CANCER-
FREE.
I TOOK A WALK OUTSIDE TODAY...
>> Suarez: SO COULD THIS KIND OF
SET-UP BE REPLICATED IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY?
SOUL SINGER AKINA ADDERLEY
DOESN'T SEE WHY NOT.
SHE'S ONE OF ABOUT 3,000 AUSTIN
MUSICIANS WHO HAVE ACCESSED
HAAM'S BENEFITS SO FAR.
MORE JOIN EVERY DAY.
AND EVEN THOUGSOMEH  YOUNG
ADULTS FEEL THEY DON'T NEED
HEALTH COVERAGE, MOST OF THOSE
ENROLLED IN HAAM ARE 40 OR
YOUNGER, HEALTHY, AND HOPING TO
STAY THAT WAY.
>> BEING ABLE TO GET UP AND GET
OUT AND PERFORM IN SHOWS AND
RECORD ON ALBUMS, THAT'S OUR
LIVELIHOOD.
WITHOUT ACCESS TO MEDICATION OR
TREATMENT OR THERAPY OR THINGS
OF THAT NATURE, WHEN IT COMES
RIGHT DOWN TO IT, WHEN YOU GET
SICK, YOU ARE JUST OUT AND NOT
GETTING ANY INCOME IN OR TAKING
PROACTIVE STEPS TO MAKE YOURSELF
BETTER.
>> Suarez: IT'S NOT CLEAR WHAT
THE IMPACT WILL BE ON
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE HAAM WHEN THE
REST OF THE HEALTH CARE REFORM
LAW GOES LIVE.
IN TEXASTHE , FUTURE IS
ESPECIALLY MURKY, BECAUSE
OFFICIALS SAY THEY WON'T EXPAND
MEDICAID TO COVER MORE LOW-
INCOME AMERICANS.
BUT WHATEVER HAPPENS, F THEOR
MUSICIANS OF TOMORROW, THERE'S A
HEALTH CARE OPTION OUT THERE
THEY CAN AFFORD, IF ONLY WITHIN
AUSTIN'S FAMOUS CITY LIMITS.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU CAN HEAR
FULL-LENGTH SONGS FROM SOME OF
THE MUSICIANS FEATURED IN RAY'S
STORY ON OUR WEB SITE.
>> Ifill: NOW, NEW REVELATIONS
ON DOPING IN SPORTS, AND THE
FALLOUT FOR ONE OF AMERICA'S
BEST TRACK AND FIELD RUNNERS.
E 30-YEAR-OLD AMERICAN
SPRINTER TYSON GAY WAS OFF TO A
GREAT START THIS SEASON AFTER
BEING PLAGUED BY INJURIES IN
RECENT YEARS.
BUT ON FRIDAY, THE U.S.
ANTIDOPING AGENCY, USADA
NOTIFIED GAY THAT HE TESTED
POSITIVE FOR AN UNNAMED BANNED
SUBSTANCE IN MAY.
GAY BROKE THE NEWS HIMSELF.
IN AN INTERVIEW, HE SAID, I
DON'T HAVE ANY SABOTAGE STORY, I
DON'T HAVE ANY LIES, I PUT MY
TRUST IN SOMEONE AND I WAS LET
DOWN.
IT WAS QUITE AN ADMISSION FROM A
FORMER WORLD CHAMPION WHOING
SUBJECTED HIM TO TESTING.
GAY TALKED ABOUT BEING CLEAN
DURING A VIDEO IN 2008.
>> I BELIEVE IN FAIRNESS, AND
BESIDES THAT, MY MOM WOULD KILL
ME.
>> GAY'S IS THE BIGGEST NAME
CONNECTED TO DOPING SINCE MARION
TESTED POSITIVE FOR DRUGS.
>> IT IS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SHAME
THAT I STAND BEFORE YOU AND TELL
YOU THAT I HAVE BETRAYED YOUR
UST.TR
>> FIVE GEORGI JAMAICA N ATHLETT
MONTH ANOTHER JAY MA JAMAICAN A,
ALL DENIED CHEATING.
AS FOR TYSON GAY HE HAS BEEN
DENIED AND LOST HIS ADIDAS
DOCUMENTARY DEAL.
FOR MOWER, WE ARE JOINED BY
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, A COLUMNIST
FOR U.S.A. TODAY AND ABC.
WELCOME BACK.
>> THANKS GWEN.
Ifill: HOW BIG IS THIS?
TYSON GAY IS KNOWN AS
MR. CLEAN.
HE SAID I AM CLEAN, IF I'M NOT
MY MOTHER WILL KILL ME.
HIS MOTHER IS NOT HAPPY TODAY,
OBVIOUSLY.
HE IS 30 YEARS OLD.
HIS WHOLE CAREER HAS BEEN ABOUT
THIS AND NOW HE HAS TESTED
POSITIVE.
IT IS A DEVASTATING BLOW FOR THE
SPORT THAT'S ALREADY BEEN
REELING OVER THE YEARS FROM BEN
JOHNSON, MARION JONES, TEN YEARS
AGO AND NOW THIS.
YOU WONDER IF IT IS PUSHING THE
SPORTS INTO OBLIVION.
>>Ifill: HOW ABOUT THE --
GEORGIA MAY KAH -- JAMAICAN RUN?
>> YOU CAN REMEMBER THE DAYS
SPORTS FANS CERTAINLY CAN WHEN
TRACK AND FIELD ATHLETES WOULD
BE ON SPORTS ILLUSTRATED THREE,
FOUR, FIVE TIMES A YEAR MANY THE
MAIMS MARTY LEQUARRY AND BEN
MEYERS, MILERS, OTHER THAN
CYCLING A SPOT THAT HAS BEEN HIT
THE HARDEST IN THE UNITED STATES
AND THE WORLD BUT U.S. BECAUSE
OF THE STEROID SCANDAL.
IF YOU CAN'T -- IF YOU'RE
LOOKING AT A FOOT RACE AND YOU
CAN'T TRUST EIGHT MEN OR EIGHT
WOMEN RUNNING IN A FOOT RACE
WHAT CAN YOU TRUST?
>>Ifill: YOU MENTIONED CYCLING.
HOW DOES THIS COMPARE WITH
UNFOLDING SLOWLY PAINFULLY OVER
YEARS WITH LANCE ARMSTRONG?
>> LANCE ARMSTRONG LIED FOR
YEARS, ALSO TRANSCENDED HIS
SUPPORT BECAUSE OF HIS WORK IN
THE CANCER COMMUNITY.
HE WAS A CULTURAL ICON NOT JUST
A SPORTS ICON.
TYSON GAY THAT IS NOT LANCE
ARMSTRONG.
BUT I THINK THERE'S A SIMILARITY
THERE.
PEOPLE LOOKING AT CYCLING
SAYING, WHY AM I WATCHING THIS?
HOW CAN I TRUST THIS?
WHEN YOU'VE GOT ALL THOSE YEARS
OF WHEN LANCE IS KICKED OUT AND
NO ONE CAN TAKE THE TOP SPOT
BECAUSE THEY ALL CHEATED TOO.
AND YOU ALMOST WONDER IF TRACK
AND FIELD IS THERE.
>>Ifill: WHAT IS THE PUNISHMENT
FOR TYSON GAY?
>> IF HE IS FOUND TO BE GUILTY A
TWO-YEAR BAN AND THEN LIFETIME.
THERE CAN BE MITIGATING
CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DON'T KNOW IF
THERE'S A SUBSTANCE THAT IS
TAINTED.
HE IS RESPONSIBLE WHAT'S IN HISS
NOT GOING TO LIE ABOUT THIS.
>> THAT IS INITIAL.
IN TERMS OF THE TERRIBLE
INCIDENT FOR HIS SPORT, HE DID
THIS HIMSELF, HE SAID I TRUSTED
SOMEONE.
BUT THE LINE IS THEY HAVE TO
KNOW WHAT THEY PUT IN THEIR
BODY.
IT IS INEXCUSABLE, TO TAKE A
SUBSTANCE AND NOT KNOW THE
CONTENTS, YOU CAN CALL THE 24-7,
800 NUMBER AND TALK ABOUT ANY
CHEMICAL AT ANY POINT.
>> YOU COVER A LOT OF THIS CHRIS
AND YOU MUST KNOW AFTER ALL THE
YEARS OF WATCHING THIS, PEOPLE
RISE AND THE DISAPPOINTMENTS
THAT A LOT OF SPORTS FANS LOOK
AT THIS AND THINK WHO DO I
TRUST?
WHAT DO I TRUST ANYMORE?
WHAT IS THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION?
>> IT IS A GREAT QUESTION.
BECAUSE THE TESTING IN THE
OLYMPIC WORLD IS THE TOUGHEST
GOING SO WHILE WE TALK ABOUT
BASEBALL AND THE PROBLEMS THERE,
AND LOOMING SCANDAL AND LOOMING
SUSPENSIONS WITH THE BIOGENESIS
SAGA THERE, WE TALK ABOUT OTHER
SPORTS THAT DON'T EVEN HAVE AS
STRINGENT TESTING AS OLYMPICS OR
BASEBALL, YOU SAY AT LEAST
OLYMPICS HAVE TOUGH TESTING AND
THENTHI S.
MARION JONES NEVER FAILED A DRUG
TEST AND SHE IS SADLY ONE OF THE
WORST CHEATERS OF ALL TIMES, AND
LANCE ARMSTRONG NEVER FAILED A
TEST.
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY YOU COULD
TRUST MISSY FRANKLIN YOU COULD
TRUSTS MICHAEL PHELPS.
WE ALL KNOW, WE WERE BORN HERE,
NOT BORN YESTERDAY.
I'M NOT SAYING MICHAEL PHELPS OR
MISSY FRANKLIN, BUT, BAD
CHEMICAL IS ARE WAY AHEAD OF THE
GOOD CHEMICAL ISN I -- CHEMISTS.
>> THE AUTHORITIES HAVEN'T BEGUN
TO TEST FOR BECAUSE THEY DON'T
KNOW EXIST THAT THESE ATHLETES
MAY BE TAKING.
THIS IS A DEVASTATING BLOW WHEN
MR. CLEAN THE GUY WHO STOOD UP
THERE AND SAID I AM CLEAN HAS
TESTED POSITIVE AND THE
JAMAICANS AS WELL.
I'D LIKE TO SAY THERE'S SOME
HOPE BUT TOUGHER TESTING HAS GOT
TO BE THE ANSWER AND ATHLETES
WHO DECIDE THEY CAN'T CHEAT
ANYMORE.
>>Ifill: CHRISTINE BRENNAN,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> GWEN, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, TO
MEXICO, AND A PERSONAL LOOK AT
OUR COUNTRY'S NEIGHBOR TO THE
SOUTH THROUGH THE EYES OF A
JOURNALIST.
MARGARET WARNER HAS MORE.
>> Warner: MEXICO IS A COUNTRY
OF RICHES AND PROMISE, NOW THE
SECOND FASTEST-GROWING ECONOMY
IN LATIN AMERICA, AND IT IS
PLAGUED BY VIOLENCE AND
CORRUPTION FUELED BY THE DRUG
TRADE THAT HAS KILLED SOME
80,000 PEOPLE IN THE PAST
DECADE.
A NEW BOOK BY "DALLAS MORNING
NEWS" CORRESPONDENT ALFREWHY.
CORCHADO WAS BROUGHT TO THE
UNITED STATES AS A SMALL BOY,
YET IN 1994 HE FELT DRAWN TO
RETURN TO MEXICO AS A
JOURNALIST.
HIS NEW BOOK, "MIDNIGHT IN
MEXICO: A REPORTER'S JOURNEY
THROUGH A COUNTRY'S DESCENT INTO
DARKNESS," DRAWS ON HIS NEARLY
TWENTY YEARS OF REPORTING THERE,
AND HIS PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP
WITH HIS BIRTH LAND.
CORCHADO JOINS ME NOW, AND
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Warner: LAST TIME WE SAW EACH
OTHER WAS MEXICO CITY.
>> RIGHT BEFORE THE ELECTION.
>> Warner: NOW THE BOOK OPENS
WITH THIS HARROWING TALE OF YOU
GETTING A PHONE TIP FROM A
SOURCE SAYING SOMEONE IS ABOUT
TO KILL AN AMERICAN JOURNALIST
IN THE NEXT 24 HOURS, AND HE
THINKS IT'S YOU.
EVERYONE TELLS YOU TO GET OUT OF
MEXICO, AND YOU STAY TO
INVESTIGATE.
WHY?
WHAT DID YOU THINK YOU WOULD
LEARN BY FOLLOWING THE THREAD OF
WHO WAS AFTER YOU?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THAT WAS A
REAL TURNING.
WE LEFT AS... I WAS ONLY SIX
YEARS OLD WHEN WE LEFT MEXICO,
AND I ALWAYS THOUGHT I WOULD
COME BACK SOMEDAY.
AND MY MOTHER ALWAYS THOUGHT
THAT REALLY OUR OPPORTUNITY, OUR
PROSPERITY LIED IN THE UNITED
STATES.
AND I THOUGHT THAT, WELL, MEXICO
AS ITS OWN COUNTRY HAS THE
POTENTIAL TO GET ITSELF BACK.
SO I WANTED TO GO TO MEXICO AND
PROVE MY MOTHER WRONG.
THAT EVENING I KEPT THINKING, IS
MY MOTHER RIGHT?
WHY DO I FEEL SO BETRAYED BY
MEXICO?
>> Warner: SO WHAT IS YOUR
CONCLUSION AFTER ALL THESE YEARS
OF COVERAGE ABOUT WHY MEXICO
DESCENDED INTO THIS DARKNESS OF
CORRUPTION AND THE DRUG TRADE
AND VIOLENCE AND KILLINGS?
>> WELL, WE HAD THE BIG CHANGE
IN THE YEAR 2000.
THE OPPOSITION FOR THE FIRST
TIME TOOK OFFICE.
THEY KICKED OUT THE REGIME WHICH
HAD GOVERNED MEXICO FOR 71
YEARS.
SO ESSENTIALLY YOU HAD THE POWER
GOING FROM A MORE CENTRAL POWER
TO THE STATE LEVEL.
AND SUDDENLY I THINK ORGANIZED
CRIME JUST TOOK ADVANTAGE OF
THAT POWER VACUUM, AND THE
MONSTER CAME OUT, IF YOU WILL.
>> Warner: A PERSISTENT THEME IN
THIS BOOK ALSO HAS TO DEAL WITH
THE MEXICAN CHARACTER.
AND YOU JUST FLICKED AT THAT A
LITTLE BY TALKING ABOUT YOUR
MOTHER, BUT YOU DESCRIBE A KIND
OF FATALISM.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY THAT?
>> AS A KID GROWING UP IN THE
U.S., YOU HEAR SO MUCH ABOUT
MEXICO AND THE MEXICAN
CHARACTER.
IS IT A CULTURE OF CORRUPTION?
IS IT A PART OF OUR GENES?
I LIVE IN MEXICO CITY, BUT I
SPEND A LOT OF TIME ON THE U.S.-
MEXICO BORDER.
EL PASO IS ONE OF THE SAFEST
CITIES IN THE UNITED STATES, YET
FOR MANY YEARS WAS MARKED AS ONE
OF THE MOST VIOLENT CITIES.
SO I'VE ALWAYS BEEN SKEPTICAL OF
THAT.
IS IT REALLY A CULTURE OF
FATALISM, OR IS IT REALLY A LACK
OF LAW AND WEAK INSTITUTIONS?
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT HAS
ALWAYS BEEN A SOURCE OF MY
CURIOSITY AS A JOURNALIST.
>> Warner: AND SO WHAT HAVE YOU
CONCLUDED?
>> I'VE CONCLUDED THAT SOMETIMES
AMIDST THE WORST MOMENTS IN
MEXICO, I'VE SEEN THE BEST OF
MEXICANS.
AND I'VE SEEN A RESILIENT
SPIRIT.
I'VE SEEN A PEOPLE FIGHTING TO
REALLY CONSTRUCT COMMUNITIES,
OFTEN FROM THE RUINS OF WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
A HUNDRED THOUSAND PEOPLE WERE
EITHER KILLED OR DISAPPEARED.
BUT PEOPLE... I THINK IN SOME
WAYS THE VIOLENCE HAS BROUGHT
PEOPLE TOGETHER.
I THINK IT'S MADE THEM TRY AND
HOLD GOVERNMENT MUCH MORE
ACCOUNTABLE THAN THEY'VE DONE IN
THE PAST.
>> Warner: AND NOW MEXICO REALLY
DOES HAVE THIS RISING MIDDLE
CLASS.
NET MIGRATION, I THINK, IS DOWN
TO ZERO, AT LEAST BETWEEN MEXICO
AND THE U.S.
THERE ARE CIVIL SOCIETY GROUPS.
DO YOU TAKE ANY HOPE IN THESE
TRENDS THAT IN MEXICO THE
BALANCE WILL SHIFT, AND YOU WILL
HAVE STRONGER INSTITUTIONS, AND
YOU WILL HAVE CITIZENS SAYING NO
WE NEED BETTER HERE?
>> I OFTEN FEEL LIKE, AS A
JOURNALIST, COVERING MEXICO IS
LIKE COVERING TWO COUNTRIES.
THERE'S THAT TROUBLED SIDE OF
MEXICO, THE COUNTRY WHERE THE
VIOLENCE IS THERE.
BUT THERE'S ALSO, I THINK, A
MUCH MORE PROSPEROUS SIDE OF
MEXICO.
I OFTEN THINK AS AN AMERICAN
THAT SOMEDAY AMERICANS WILL MISS
MEXICANS, BECAUSE THE BIRTH RATE
HAS GONE FROM SEVEN TO TWO.
YOU DON'T SEE MEXICANS
MIGRATING.
IT'S INTERESTING.
I WAS JUST IN THE REGION IN
CENTRAL MEXICO, AND THE PEOPLE I
ASKED, DO YOU FEEL THE SAME
DESIRE TO MIGRATE LIKE OTHER
GENERATIONS?
AND THEY SAY, IF I DO, IT'S MORE
OF CURIOSITY THAN NECESSITY.
AND I THINK SOMEDAY THERE WILL
BE A TIME WHEN AMERICANS SAY,
WHERE ARE ALL THE MEXICANS?
>> Warner: BUT, I MEAN, WITHIN
MEXICO, MEXICO HAS A NEW
PRESIDENT NOW, ENRIQUE PENA
NIETO.
DO YOU SEE ANY NEW ERA DAWNING?
SO THE TWO WORLDS, THE TWO
MEXICOS, WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE
TO COEXIST.
THAT IS THE PROSPEROUS RISING
MIDDLE CLASS ECONOMY AND THIS
WHOLE OTHER HUGELY PROFITABLE,
HUGELY CORROSIVE UNDERBELLY.
>> I THINK IF YOU ASK MOST
MEXICANS, THEY WANT THAT OTHER
SIDE.
THEY WANT THAT CENTRAL PART OF
MEXICO TO REPLICATE OTHER PARTS
OF THE COUNTRY.
BUT I THINK AS LONG AS YOU HAVE
THE SECURITY CHALLENGES, THE
ECONOMIC POTENTIAL, THE
PROSPERITY WILL BE UNDERMINED BY
THOSE CHALLENGES.
I THINK, IN THE END, THE
QUESTION IS, CAN MEXICO HAVE
PEACE WITHOUT JUSTICE?
AND THAT, AS A JOURNALIST, I
THINK THE NEXT FEW YEARS WILL BE
THE MOST FASCINATING TIME TO
COVER.
HOW MUCH HAVE MEXICANS REALLY
CHANGE?
I MEAN, CAN THEY HOLD THE OLD
REGIME ACCOUNTABLE?
>> Warner: AND SO YOU'RE
STAYING?
>> I'M STAYING.
IT'S NOT THAT I HAVE A DEATH
WISH.
I'M STAYING BECAUSE I REALLY
BELIEVE IN THE MEXICANS
THEMSELVES.
AND I BELIEVE THAT THE STORY HAS
TO BE TOLD.
AND I HOPE THAT THE BOOK, AND MY
REPORTING, CONTINUES TO SERVE AS
A BRIDGE OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.
>> Warner: ALFREDO CORCHADO,
AUTHOR OF "MIDNIGHT IN MEXICO,"
THANKS.
>> THANKS.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
CALLED THE KILLING OF TRAYVON
MARTIN "TRAGIC" AND
"UNNECESSARY," BUT HE STOPPED
SHORT OF SAYING HE'LL FILE CIVIL
RIGHTS CHARGES AGAINST GEORGE
ZIMMERMAN, NOW THAT HE'S BEEN
ACQUITTED OF MURDER AND
MANSLAUGHTER.
AND IN CAIRO, A TOP U.S.
DIPLOMAT URGED EGYPT'S INTERIM
LEADERS TO INCLUDE ALL PARTIES
IN A TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, HOW CAN WE
SIMPLIFY SOCIAL SECURITY?
KWAME HOLMAN HAS THE DETAILS.
>> Holman: THE U.S. PROGRAM,
WITH THOUSANDS OF RULES, COULD
LEARN SOMETHING FROM NEW
ZEALAND'S PENSION SYSTEM, WHICH
HAS JUST ONE RULE.
FIND OUT WHAT IT IS ON THIS
WEEK'S EDITION OF "ASK LARRY" ON
MAKING SENSE.
PLUS, ELIOT SPITZER AND ANTHONY
WEINER AREN'T THE ONLY NEW YORK
POLITICIANS WHO HAVE REIGNITED
THEIR POLITICAL CAREERS AFTER
SCANDAL.
THEY JOIN A LONG HISTORY.
READ ABOUT SCOUNDRELS OF THE
PAST ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A HUGE
SCHOOL IN INDIA THAT AIMS TO
TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF POOR
CHILDREN FROM TRIBAL
COMMUNITIES.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.